Clarify `security`; state what `[]` means (#4007)
OAI/OpenAPI-Specification: versions/3.1.1.md

| <a name="oas-external-docs"></a>externalDocs            | [External Documentation Object](#external-documentation-object) | Additional external documentation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

This object MAY be extended with [Specification Extensions](#specification-extensions).

###### <a name="oas-security-field"></a>The `security` field

> The `security` field describes how requests are authorized. If omitted, then requests are always authorized; otherwise, it is an array of security requirement objects, only one of which needs to be satisfied for the request to be authorized.

Reviewer: What does
> then requests are always authorized
mean?

Top-of-mind interpretations:
1. Requests need authorization, and I don't tell you how, or
2. Requests don't need authorization

I'd argue that it means the first, because the second can be made explicit via `security: [{}]`.

Author: If you mean "what was the author's intention behind those words", then I can answer authoritatively: it means #2.

However, I can see how it could be interpreted the other way. Do you have a suggested alternative wording?

> Because the empty [security requirement object](#security-requirement-object) `{}` will always authorize the request, it follows that `security: [{}]` means the same as omitting `security` entirely: namely, all requests are authorized.

Reviewer: I think "no info" means "no info", see above.

Author: Could we perhaps be a little more precise with the language here, please? When you say that X means Y, should that be interpreted as:

1. "Personally, I have always taken X as implying Y" (i.e. a reference to an existing spec)
2. or: "I believe that the majority of people using OpenAPI have always taken X as implying Y" (existing spec)
3. or: "I would like X to imply Y" (i.e. with reference to a dev/future spec)

(1) doesn't need any rationale; if that's your interpretation, then that's your interpretation. Nobody can deny that.

(2) _may_ benefit from supporting evidence (depending on how controversial it seems, for example)

(3) may well benefit from a supporting argument, especially if "X implies Y" is not clearly true in the existing spec.

So which is it?

Author: For a long comment (by me), that sure was a waste of space. Sorry, ignore me. I'm not sure where I was going with that.

| <a name="oas-components"></a>components                |            [Components Object](#components-object)             | An element to hold various schemas for the document.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | <a name="oas-security"></a>security                    |  [[Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object)]  | See [the `security` field](#oas-security-field).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <a name="oas-security"></a>security                    |  [[Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object)]  | A declaration of which security mechanisms can be used across the API. See [The `security` Field](#the-security-field).
```

| <a name="oas-external-docs"></a>externalDocs            | [External Documentation Object](#external-documentation-object) | Additional external documentation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

This object MAY be extended with [Specification Extensions](#specification-extensions).

> ###### <a name="oas-security-field"></a>The `security` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### The `security` Field
```
We now rely on automatic anchors for headings

The `security` field describes how requests are authorized:

- If omitted, then nothing can be inferred about the authorization requirements; the behaviour is implementation-defined.
- If present but empty (`security: []`), then the behaviour is undefined.

> - Otherwise, it is an array of Security Requirement Objects, only one of which needs to be satisfied for the request to be authorized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Otherwise, it is an array of [Security Requirement Objects](#security-requirement-object), only one of which needs to be satisfied for the request to be authorized.
```

> - If omitted, then nothing can be inferred about the authorization requirements; the behaviour is implementation-defined.

Reviewer 2: While the text could have been more clear, I think this is actually pretty well-defined. I don't recall anyone arguing that any tools treat lack of security as anything but "allow all". The only question was whether [] is the same as that default or not.

Author: Defined, no. Understood / assumed, yeah, I'll buy that.

Happy to change this to "allow all", but I'll wait for more opinions first.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @handrews  and I am not comfortable with omission being considered imp-defined. IMHO, this is counter productive.   "Allow all" seems (at least for now) a more reasonable approach.

Author: https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/pull/4007#discussion_r1711137553

Sounds like there are still some pretty directly opposed viewpoints around.

Reviewer 2: For omitting `security`, it should be straightforward to check what a few major implementations do.  I'm 99.999% sure it is allow-all.  No one seemed to suggest otherwise on the call, and it's pretty inconceivable that leaving out a field that not everyone even wants to use would make a description un-callable.  Some people just describe the HTTP basics.

We could also check what these implementations do with `security: []` although even if they all do the same thing I'd hesitate to use that to define the behavior.

> Because the empty [Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object) `{}` will always be satisfied, any `security` list that includes `{}` will allow all requests. In particular, `security: [{}]` means that no security schemes are in use (also known as "no security").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the empty Security Requirement Object `{}` will always be satisfied, any `security` list that includes `{}` will allow all requests. In particular, `security: [{}]` means that no security schemes are in use (also known as "no security").
```

> - If present but empty (`security: []`), then the behaviour is undefined.

Reviewer 2: I think this is implementation-defined rather than undefined. There are only two viable options (which should be stated explicitly): allow-all or deny-all. It is implementation-defined as to which one of those two will happen. Undefined means that arbitrary (and arbitrarily wrong) behavior can happen, and I don't think that's a concern here. (Implementation-defined and undefined are terms that are defined within the OAS for 3.0.4 and 3.1.1, for anyone reading who was not aware of that)

Author: So would we change this to (paraphrasing) "it's implementation-defined, but you probably want it to be either allow all or deny all"; OR, "the behaviour MUST be either allow-all or deny-all, but which of the two, is implementation-defined" ?

Reviewer 3: security[] == "allow all"     (+1)
I am not sure what would be the effect of making / interpreting security[] == "deny all".  Probably break some tools.

Again, I am leaning towards @handrews 's comment.  However (at least in my case) it is going to take a while to get used to security[] being in some cases deny-all if we were to go this route.

Author: https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/pull/4007#discussion_r1711137553

Sounds like there are still some pretty directly opposed viewpoints around.

Reviewer 2: @rvedotrc 

> the behaviour MUST be either allow-all or deny-all, but which of the two, is implementation-defined

I think this would be preferable.  Pretty much everyone thinks it should be one or the other- no other options make sense.  So let's say that and leave it up to implementations which one to pick.  If we want, we can make one RECOMMENDED, but we should only do that if we are certain we will emphasize that direction in future releases.  So I'd probably avoid that for now.

Author: Worksforme.

Because it's not yet clear to me that there's a sufficient consensus behind any specific path forwards, before I update the PR again, let's try this:

Please +1 this comment here, if you think you would approve the PR if it said this:

 * `security` not specified == allow all
 * `security: []` MUST be either allow-all or deny-all, implementation-defined

(or -1 this comment if you think you'd request changes).

Reviewer: Can't agree to the first bullet point:
* The spec currently does not define a default for this field. Adding a default is a breaking change and needs to be deferred to v4.0

Author: > Adding a default is a breaking change

Is it? How can you tell, given that the spec did not say what the previous behaviour was?

Reviewer: > How can you tell, given that the spec did not say what the previous behaviour was?

I can tell because 
* I am omitting `security` to express "I can't tell you which authentication mechanisms will work" and 
* @miqui omits it to express "No authentication required".

Adding a default will break at least one of these interpretations.

| <a name="operation-deprecated"></a>deprecated     |                                         `boolean`                                         | Declares this operation to be deprecated. Consumers SHOULD refrain from usage of the declared operation. Default value is `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

> | <a name="operation-security"></a>security         |                [[Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object)]                | If present, then this overrides any [top-level `security` field](#oas-security) for this operation. See the definition of that field for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <a name="operation-security"></a>security         |                [[Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object)]                | A declaration of which security mechanisms can be used for this operation. If present, then this overrides any [top-level `security` field](#oas-security) for this operation. See the [definition of that field](#the-security-field) for details.
```

> | <a name="operation-security"></a>security         |                [[Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object)]                | A declaration of which security mechanisms can be used for this operation. If present, then this overrides any [top-level `security` field](#oas-security) for this operation. See the [definition of that field](#the-security-field) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
| <a name="operation-security"></a>security         |                [[Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object)]                | A declaration of which security mechanisms can be used for this operation. If present, then this overrides any [top-level `security` field](#oas-security). See the [definition of that field](#the-security-field) for details.
```

@ralfhandl WDYT? The pre-suggestion text could be read as "there's a top-level security field, just for this operation", which is confusing and doesn't make sense.

Reviewer: Yes, that is clearer. An alternative would be
```suggestion
| <a name="operation-security"></a>security         |                [[Security Requirement Object](#security-requirement-object)]                | A declaration of which security mechanisms can be used for this operation. If present, this overrides a `security` field specified at the [OpenAPI Object](#oas-security) level. See the [definition of that field](#the-security-field) for details.
```

Author: Yeah, except that reads strangely in the case where there _is_ no top-level `security`.
